Alright everyone and welcome to one more new chapter. In this chapter we are actually going to create and run a cloud build for our Android application.
So definitely in this chapter we will create a development build that can run on Android with EIS build.
Perfect, so for that simple you just simply click coming to inside this learn and you
will find ES tutorial and Android development build.
Perfect, so for Android the development must be in APK very important point otherwise you
will get confused in upcoming chapters.
So for Android, whenever you are creating a development build, in that case, you need
an APK because APK is the only format that are supported inside the iOS, I'm not not
I was sorry inside the Android.
So, while the default Android format is ABB, double AB.
So, this double AB, this AAB is actually ideal for Google Play Store distribution, got it?
It can't be installed on device or emulator.
So, to create a dot apk in ESJSON make sure the development client is set to true and
we know that inside the ESJSON we already have development client as true, very good.
Then run this command.
So, simply copy this one.
All right.
And let's try to understand this command first, then we are going to run it.
So yes, build hyphen hyphen platform, you can tell for which platform you wanted to build
this and then a profile.
So how many profile we have, we have development profile, we have preview profile and then
we have a production profile.
But for now, we wanted to create for a development profile.
So let me just paste this.
No problem.
EAS build hyphen hyphen platform Android and profile as development and the moment I hit
this so this command prompt us with the following question what would you like your Android application
ID to be so you can just simply give ID just happened.
Expo, Graph, API is my internet is not working.
I think yes.
All right.
So now let me retry to run this.
So es-bit platform android and hyphen hyphen profile development.
Cool.
So let me just open this in a full screen for now.
So, the first thing that is coming is Android application ID.
So, what would you like your Android application ID to be?
Just simply press on tap.
This is what I wanted to name it.
Then all right, so generate a new key store.
So, this is already handled by ES build by itself.
So, now let's just wait for it.
And now you can see that they are basically compressing my project, uploading to AS build
and yes, now you have to wait for few minutes.
It can take some time like five minutes, sometime 10 minutes as well.
And so yes, we definitely need to wait for it.
And you can see that we are still in progress and the moment I click it and open this.
So you will see all the build details like what is happening, what are all the steps
like waiting to start spinning the build environment, prepare the project, read ESJSON, reading
the package JSON, installing all the dependencies, reading the app configuration, running expo
doctor that's fine then we have pre-build
Restore caching and prepare credentials and now they are basically running this.
Cool.
So you can definitely wait for few seconds and you can see that right now it's been
12 minutes and we are still building it.
Cool.
So let me just wait for few minutes as well.
And finally, you can see that we are getting install and run Android build on an emulator.
Definitely we would don't want it to run this on emulator.
So for now you can simply say no.
Easy.
Nice.
Below this you will find a link.
Press over it.
Nice. Let me open this. Cool. So after opening this, you will find, let me take you towards
this. Nice. So you will see two things. One is the install and another is the open with
orbit. And if you just simply press on install.
You will find a QR code.
Cool.
So let me just open my camera and try to run this out.
So let me just press this open export app.
So this is basically going to open this inside my Android application and yes, we can simply
say allow and press on install.
So this is going to install the APK.
Yes, look at that.
Right now we are installing the APK.
So, right now this is basically going to install downloading the file and one more thing Android
builds.
So, whenever we are installing the development build their size is big because they are not
ready to go in production whenever you create.
A production build their size is very low so don't worry about it cool.
So for now I can simply go to the downloads and this is the file we have downloaded I
can simply come into here and say install so right now we are installing a module 10.
Cool, so definitely let me just wait for few seconds and look at that.
Now they are saying app installed and the moment I press on open you will find something
like this UI.
So as I told you, development build means creating your own expo go like, ah, you know
So, what you will do now, you can simply say 1x expo start and the moment what they are
saying is already in use.
So, I can definitely close this, let me close this, let me rerun it.
So, 1x expo start.
And interestingly, right now they are showing us the development build.
And if I simply say A, so this is the build which is building right now.
So this is your development build.
You are opening it.
Debugging not working.
Try manually loading first.
All right.
Let me reconnect and let me start it and look at that.
I have reloaded it and this is.
Running, yes, let me show you, look at that, this is the module 10 which is not running
inside the expo go, this is running apart from expo go and working the same and let
me show you something, if I just simply go to my app, close everything, let's go to the
index.
And here instead of welcome, I say welcome to our build and now if I save it, cool.
Why this is not worked?
Maybe if I am in right thing, maybe I need to reload it once.
So this will work.
Cool. You need not to reload it every time whenever you make any changes due to some
issue that's why they are not working but whenever you made any changes you write anything
in real time you can see the output here. And yes look at that. This is what they are
showing. It's fine. Definitely you can change it wherever you want.
And, where ever you wanted to change, let's say if I just remove this hello wave, hopefully
this will work in real time and yes look at that, refreshing and the wave is removed
from here, cool.
So, this is the power of development build, now what you can do, you can use any, yes
You can use any of the
packages which is available inside that.
So from next chapter we will see that but more things to cover inside this and then
we will end this entire module.
And once again after completing all the projects when we come into the actual deployment part
where I will show you how you can deploy your application to the Play Store then you will
learn lot more other thing as well.
So this is pretty much it for this chapter and see you next time.